{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red220\green161\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89412\c68627\c3922;}
{\info
{\author \'c1ngel Navidad}
{\*\copyright \'c1ngel Navidad}}\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 Hist series\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://dataverse.harvard.edu/privateurl.xhtml?token=135a1006-cd54-4d9e-ba7b-d961b93f1bc4"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://dataverse.harvard.edu/privateurl.xhtml?token=135a1006-cd54-4d9e-ba7b-d961b93f1bc4}}\
Google sheets = {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18xr822nvCZH9oZMbitnYo3Iwy682sr2i7z9lgiPp7c4/edit?usp=sharing"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18xr822nvCZH9oZMbitnYo3Iwy682sr2i7z9lgiPp7c4/edit?usp=sharing}}\
12 nov mtg = {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://youtu.be/Y7sUg8C4QSo"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://youtu.be/Y7sUg8C4QSo}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Prev emailed people x\
Profs / teachers x\
Bean writers x\
Foreign writers x\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hist\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 29 Oct 2020 = foi act requests written\
7 Nov 2020 = rule of law data pull\
16 Jan 2021 = casualties and losses since 1798\
26 Mar 2021 = prelim rep bz 1.4 WORK.numbers\
8 April 2021 = prelim rep bz 1.6\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Actions\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 NYT searched < 16 Jan 2021\
Gale Primary Sources < 16 Jan 2021\
Burney < 13 Feb 2021\
vars < 21 Mar 2021\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Hi Prof,\
\
Thanks for getting back so quickly, and sorry about the file format! Here\'92s are other options-\
\
1. If you\'92re able to view Google Docs, here\'92s a link to the dataset: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18xr822nvCZH9oZMbitnYo3Iwy682sr2i7z9lgiPp7c4/edit?usp=sharing"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/18xr822nvCZH9oZMbitnYo3Iwy682sr2i7z9lgiPp7c4/edit?usp=sharing}}\
\
2. If that\'92s not possible, I\'92ve attacked a PDF of the dataset (3.6 MB, 451 pp). It\'92s a bit cumbersome and text on it is small, but should display well on any computer.\
\
Let me know if that does not help!\
\
My best,\
Angel\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Attd = \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Ps. I\'92ve recently been asked to provide the following background information, in case you should have similar questions (since I\'92ve yet to add it to the dataset)\'97\
\
1. Q = \'91What issues are you covering in your dataset?\'92 A = 'The dataset is meant to be comprehensive, and will hopefully cover all issues of concern to historians. That said, for the \'91Events\'92 series, I\'92ve focussed on (i) events which have caused losses of life, limb, or property in the Belize, or to Belizeans / Baymen / non-Spanish buccaneers or pirates, (ii) events of constitutional, civic, religious, social, economic, financial, or commercial importance in Belize or the world which might bear upon the history of Belize. The \'92Sources\'92 series provide primary and secondary documentary sources which might be of use to histories of Belize [currently fairly comprehensive for sources prior to 1900, and very incomplete after that, and furthermore currently missing newspapers which were nonetheless used as sources for other files]. The \'92Towns\'92 series is a list of settlements existing or established after Columbus [currently very incomplete]. The \'91Cartas\'92 series is a list of 17th century piratical activity in the Bay of Honduras [currently very incomplete]. All other series are statistical.\'92\
\
2. Q = \'91Is this private research? For academic studies? Other?\'92 A = 'The project is private research, though I plan on publishing it as a paper once I can work on it in summer 2022 or 2023. (I\'92m a fourth year undergrad studying philosophy, so will have to focus on unrelated coursework this coming spring and fall.) I started the project because I thought (i) there were a lot of false negative errors and omissions in Belizean historiography, (ii) a lot of 16th, 17th and 18th century events which were not analysed or covered in Belizean historiography, (iii) a lot of primary documentary sources which were not studied or surveyed in Belizean historiography, (iv) a worrying gap between Spanish-language and English-language Belizean historiography, (v) a gap between historical information in anthropological and archaeological literature on the one hand, and Belizean historiography on the other. I figured this project might serve as a research tool for writers, historians, and others, to (i) avoid errors, (ii) avoid duplication of efforts.\'92\
\
3. Q = \'91Please tell me more about the project.\'92 A = 'The project started as a list of all events resulting in the loss of life or property in Belize since the 1630s to present (as I could not find this information comprehensively published elsewhere). To gather the list, I searched all digital databases, catalogues, and bibliographies to which Harvard had access, including both primary and secondary literature. During my search, it became apparent that secondary literature often (i) made contradictory claims, (ii) omitted facts or figures, (iii) ignored major repositories of primary sources, etc. (Eg many Belizeans consider the period of buccaneering or piracy in the Bay of Honduras to be a part of their history. Despite this, many histories ignore this period or simply gloss over it. In fact, there was only one publication I could find that covered piracy in the Bay. In addition, many historical facts and figures are available in Spanish, Mexican, and Guatemalan repositories, which Spanish-language histories often have access to. However, many English-language histories of Belize often do not use these primary and secondary sources\'97though this problem has improved recently. In addition, many Spanish-language histories often focus on the diplomatic history of Belize, such that the aforementioned repositories are not often mined for broader histories of Belize.) In my opinion, this results in a very confused state of historiography, with considerable gaps in coverage, and considerable disagreement regarding basic historical facts. I thought this might be easily (though tediously) solved by collecting all facts and figures available in all primary and secondary source material into one database, such that writers, researchers, and historians might not have to do all that work to produce accurate papers and publications. I think it\'92s a fitting follow-up to Sir Burdon\'92s Archives of British Honduras. Currently, the database includes a bibliography of all primary and secondary material fully or partially bearing information pertinent to Belizean history [it\'92s currently missing a lot of the newspapers I used, however\'97and is particularly weak in coverage of publications after 1900, and of publications in anthropology and archaeology]. It includes a list of all events which have been studied or analysed in secondary literature, and (prior to circa 1850), of all events mentioned in digitised primary sources as well (since many of these have not been analysed by Belizean histories). Lastly, it includes various pre-censal and pre-statistical facts and figures which constitute something of a \'91Historical Statistics of Belize\'92, in the vein of such publications like \'91Historical Statistics of the United States\'92 and \'91British Historical Statistics\'92. The file labelled \'91Introduction\'92 more fully covers the contents of the series, though I\'92ve been advised to add more information to it, particularly as regards data-collection (which I\'92ll be working on soon).\'92}