{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red220\green161\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89412\c68627\c3922;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
{\info
{\author \'c1ngel Navidad}
{\*\copyright \'c1ngel Navidad}}\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9500\viewh7840\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 Historical data sets quality measures\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}All points checked by second person.
\f0\b \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 {\listtext	2.	}Dates? OS. Vs NS. Calendar year vs fiscal year\
{\listtext	3.	}Currency, weights and measures?
\f0\b \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 {\listtext	4.	}Reading old script?
\f0\b \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 {\listtext	5.	}Translation?
\f0\b \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 {\listtext	6.	}Clerical errors eg arithmetic, conversion errors? Errata in printed sources eg errata sheets?
\f0\b \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 {\listtext	7.	}First order = accuracy of press reports and archives?\
{\listtext	8.	}Controlled vocabulary for names, geography, etc?\
{\listtext	9.	}Current vs official values in customs? Fob? CIF?\
{\listtext	10.	}Gaps in sec lit surveyed, and in prim lit surveyed
\f0\b \
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\b0 {\listtext	11.	}Standardise earlier styles and abbreviations eg Zahedieh 3 for newer forms and styles eg Zahedieh 3 = Zahedieh 92\
{\listtext	12.	}Emphasis in original text vs added? Emphasis not preserved in txt files\
{\listtext	13.	}Colophon or imprint and other bibliographic data for sources not standardised eg 8 vols in 9 / vols vs parts vs libros / non-continuous paginations / series for journals or books / start and end dates for vars works eg Hansards or for works with conflicting bib data / vars imprints for multi vol works\
{\listtext	14.	}Size and date ranges for prim collection sources in Sources 2 not standardised or reliably sourced\
{\listtext	15.	}Designation of a source as prim or non-prim not standardised\
{\listtext	16.	}Sp vs Brit Hon may have caused some sources to be excluded or some to improperly be included ie false positives or false negatives\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
REV LEFT 25 oct 2021\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Finish citation / references updating for CF, VIA, NOTE vars in Events 2\
{\listtext	2.	}Finish Introduction sheet\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 re Govt revenues see R. Bonney, The Rise of the Fiscal state in Europe, c. 1200-1815 [Oxford]see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.esfdb.org/Default.aspx"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 www.esfdb.org/Default.aspx}} /v UK BE sheet Front Page section Metadata and documentation}