{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red220\green161\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89412\c68627\c3922;}
{\info
{\author \'c1ngel Navidad}
{\*\copyright \'c1ngel Navidad}}\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww8480\viewh7840\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 The Baymen\'92s experiment\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 \
We\'92ve been running an experiment for fifteen generations now. What started in 1638 has in many measures passed the test of time, if only barely here and there. Will it, though, endure?\
\
It helps, first, to see what exactly the buccaneers-turned-baymen were testing in the seventeenth century, and why.\
\
The first clue comes from pirates themselves. We know most of them had once been seamen on merchant ships, where their captains had absolute authority over their freedoms and fortunes at sea.\
\
\'93\
[Their captains] had the power to \'93make life tolerable or unbearable [for the sailors] as they wished\'94. Unfortunately for seamen, more than a few captains opted for the latter.\
\'93\
\
\'93\
Our Captain and his Mate used us Barbarously. We poor Men can\'92t have Justice done us. There is nothing said to our Commanders, let them never so much abuse us, and use us like Dogs.\
\'93\
\
Predatory captains would discipline insolent crew men with severe corporal punishment. As one captain recounted, \'93I gave [a seditious Fellow] two or three such Strokes with a stick I had prepared for that purpose \'85 the Blood running about his Ears, he pray\'92d for God\'92s sake that I not kill him\'94.\
\
Perhaps this would have been bearable if the sailors had recourse to right perceived or actual wrongs. But often times, the captain\'92s punishment was legal. And when his treatment exceeded legal bounds, the sailor faced an uphill battle in court, which often came down to his word against the captain\'92s. Short of mutiny, there wasn\'92t much a sailor could do to protect himself from his captain aboard a merchant ship.\
\
\'93\
As one seaman warned a newcomer, \'93There is no justice or injustice on board ship, my lad. There are only two things: duty and mutiny\'97mind that. All that you are ordered to do is duty. All that you refuse to do is mutiny.\'94\
\'93\
\
It is said, by pirates themselves, that such abuse was largely responsible for driving sailors from driving sailors into piracy.\
\
***\
\
A morning mist hid the coral sand port on the southern tip of Tortuga, just five miles off the north-western coast of Spanish-owned Hispaniola. Buccaneers, since as early as 1630, would drop anchor at this port, unwind with a bit of rum, and gather a crew for their next trip.\
\
These men, it turns out, \'93were adamant in wanting to limit the captain\'92s power to abuse and cheat them.\'94\
\
\'93\
Most of them having suffered formerly from the ill-treatment of Officers, provided thus carefully against any such Evil now they had the choice in themselves \'85 for the due Execution thereof they constituted other Officers besides the Captain; so ver industrious were they to avoid putting too much Power into the hands of one Man.\
\'93\
\
Whereas we might have expected a pirate with a ship to command absolute authority over his crew, like merchant captains did, it turns out fellow-pirates were adamantly against this. On planning an expedition, a crew of 80 would gather to 
\f2\i vote
\f1\i0  on the expedition, on a captain, a quarter-master, and articles of agreement, the last of which had to pass 
\f2\i unanimously
\f1\i0  before a piratical crew was constituted.\
\
Consider first the officers. \
\
Captains retained absolute authority in times of battle, but divided it in times of peace with the quarter-master, who allocated provisions, selected and distributed loot, adjudicated conflicts and administered discipline.\
\
\'93\
[The] Captain of a Pirate Ship, is chiefly chosen to fight the Vessels [the pirates] may meet with. Besides him, they chuse another principle Officer, whom they call Quarter-master, who has the general Inspection of all Affairs, and often controuls the Captain\'92s Orders.\
\'93\
\
The crew, thereby, \'93only [permitted their captain] to be Captain, on Condition, that they may be Captain over him.\'94 And their elections turn out not to have been hollow gestures. Crews would vote or depose captains for any number of reasons, like overstepping his authority, cowardice, poor judgement, and in fact, any other behaviour they felt was not in their best interest. One captain\'92s crew, for instance, grew dissatisfied with his behaviour and \'93at last forced him, with twelve other\'94 who supported him \'93into an open Boat \'85 and \'85 they were never heard of afterwards.\'94\
\
Quarter-masters enforced the articles of agreement, which listed the crew\'92s laws and the punishment for breaking them, thereby limiting the quarter-master\'92s discretion in exercising his power. And in any case of doubt regarding the articles, the quarter-master was not left to his discretion, but rather the crew gathered to interpret or apply the articles to situations not clearly listed therein.\
\
\'93\
In Case any Doubt should arise concerning the Construction of these Laws, and it should remain a Dispute whether the Party had infringed them or no, a Jury was appointed to explain them, and bring in a Verdict upon the Case in Doubt.\
\'93\
\
These customs, it seems, were pretty good at keeping the peace among \'93nest[s] of rogues\'94. As one pirate observer put it, \'93At sea, [pirates] perform their duties with a great deal of order, better even than on the Ships of the Dutch East India Company; the pirates take a great deal of pride in doing things right.\'94\
\
At first glance, it seems surprising that 
\f2\i pirates
\f1\i0  would organise themselves like this. The practices seem too enlightened to be common amongst thieves- and barbarians-of-the-seas. And yet, they were common.\
\
***\
\
These, then, were the Baymen\'92s customs, which they brought over to St. George\'92s fifteen generations ago. A unanimously voted upon constitution. Elected and easily deposed captains and quarter-masters. Trial by a jury of your own peers. The right to petition the captain and quarter-master with ease.\
\
And yet, in 1638, these customs were, at most, a few decades old. And had only been in force in months-long expeditions at sea. Could they 
\f2\i really
\f1\i0  build an enduring settlement on inhospitable, Spanish land with them?\
\
Their test did, once, for a prolonged period, fail. The corrosion of their by-now ancient rights and customs began in 1786, when the now-united Great Britain imposed on them a Superintendent. The successor office to a pirate-ship\'92s captain, since the start of piracy having been elected by his crew, was now appointed by the Home Secretary, a bureaucrat 5,200 miles away. The Baymen did, by no means, submit to an unelected Superintendent. The Public Meeting still controlled the laws and the purse, and met as of right every four months without let or hindrance. The elected Magistrates still held the lower courts and managed the public funds. \
\
The Superintendent, though he held veto power over laws passed by Public Meeting, had no way of enforcing his or Westminster\'92s will without the Magistrates or the Public Meeting. Nevertheless, with Westminster\'92s blessing, Superintendents chipped away at these institutions, consolidating power to the Baymen\'92s chagrin. By 1830, debates at Public Meetings had to be approved by the Superintendent. By 1832, election of Magistrates was abolished. By 1843, the Public Meeting itself was informed that it had \'93no right, strictly speaking, to legislate, though it may with the consent of the Superintendent make rule for the conduct of the settlement.\'94\
\
In the end then, the Baymen failed to keep their long-cherished rights and customs, and submitted to British rule. Maybe if this coup had been sudden, as so many in those in neighbouring republics have been, the Baymen would have prevented this turn of events. Or maybe if their livelihoods hadn\'92t depended so wholly on trade with Britain. And so on.\
\
The final blow was self-dealt. In 1853, the Public Meeting renounced its powers, and in 1870 their successor, the Legislative Assembly, abolished suffrage in favour of legislators appointed by the Crown.\
\
And so, a 232-year tradition of proud, adamant freedom from tyranny and independent self-determination was, in large part, voluntarily given up. It wasn\'92t to be regained until 1954, more than three generations later.\
\
***\
\
Honduras has suffered six coups attempts. El Salvador, eight. Guatemala, three. Mexico, six. Costa Rica, three. Panama, five.\
\
There is nothing 
\f2\i free
\f1\i0  about freedom from tyranny. This freedom must be secured by persistent, dogged people. By many measures, we don\'92t currently harbour tyrants, and haven\'92t since the grim years of 1870 to 1954. Other than the Public Meeting\'92s and Legislative Assembly\'92s wilful self-destruction, we have had no coups, and recorded no attempts at a coup.\
\
And yet, by many measures, we are on the precipice. We\'92ve been deemed a fragile state since 2007, with the likes of El Salvador. Our rule of law has been in free fall since 2006. Our government\'92s effectiveness at, well, governing, and the quality of our regulations have likewise been on a noticeable decline. We are keeping a 
\f2\i much
\f1\i0  looser leash on our government than we should be. And thereby putting ourselves and future Belizeans at significant risk of losing hard-fought rights and freedoms. \
\
It seems incredible to us that what has happened in neighbouring republics could happen here. But then again, did it not seem incredible to the Baymen to see their long-established customs erode into the same autocracy they knew aboard merchant ships? There is nothing impossible about the idea, nothing special about our soil, skies, or water which precludes tyranny. There is only our adamant willingness to keep this from happening.\
\
***\
\
Therein rests the importance of the fourth estate and of communications. We 
\f2\i must not
\f1\i0  bear any overreach by our government. Freedoms dry up with infrequent use. To exercise oversight, we both need institutions to discover that which actors in bad-faith try to hide, and institutions to learn of these discoveries. That is, we need strong, well-funded journalists, and strong, well-funded systems of communication.\
\
Governments never have, and never will, keep themselves hoarding power, whether bit by bit or all at once. Elections and the courts are a necessary, but incomplete, check against this. The last check should be the collective anger and indignation of the people, at every instance of impropriety by elected officials and civil servants, of such wide-spread scale so as to terrify the bad actors. Democracy is, after all, a dance of two. Us, and our governors. And it falls on us to check them, as it always has, and always will.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
We may owe our current system of government to England, but we owe a far older one to the baymen, who in pursuit of freedom from tyranny, instituted a democratic system of divided power to preserve themselves. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
This settlement took hold fifteen generations ago. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
There was, of course, a much older settlement of a different kind.1\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
The first part of the equation is, and always has been, the people.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 1\
Eg remains of a two-year old, from some 381 generations ago, found in Mayahak Cab Pek, an archaeological site in Toledo. Cf DOI 10.1126/sciadv.aba3245\
& remains of young man, from some 452 generations ago, found in Chan Hol, a site in nearby Tulum, Mexico. Cf doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0183345 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 672-3535, Mr. Neal. \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/books/edition/_/idZAAAAAIAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://www.google.com/books/edition/_/idZAAAAAIAAJ?hl=en&gbpv=0}}\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}