{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\info
{\author \'c1ngel Navidad}
{\*\copyright \'c1ngel Navidad}}\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13440\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 THIS SETTLEMENT-TURNED-COLONY-TURNED-STATE is an experiment we\'92ve been running for fifteen generations now. There isn\'92t much talk of Belize as a test of something. We seldom have need to talk of ourselves as testing anything. But we nonetheless are. As were the Proto-Indians and the Mayas, who once roamed in groups hunting 13-foot sloths in open savannahs, settled in villages among terraced farms of maize, beans and squash, and built limestone cities ruled by god-like, warrior kings, and an impressive material culture so far, arguably, unmatched by us, only to collapse into dispersed farmer villages again.\
What, then, 
\f2\i are
\f1\i0  we testing, and why?\
The first clue comes from buccaneers-turned-baymen themselves. We know most of them had once been sailors on merchant ships, where their captains wielded absolute authority over their fate and fortune at sea.\
[Their captains] had the power to \'93make life tolerable or unbearable [for the sailors] as they wished\'94. Unfortunately for seamen, more than a few captains opted for the latter.\
Our Captain and his Mate used us Barbarously. We poor Men can\'92t have Justice done us. There is nothing said to our Commanders, let them never so much abuse us, and use us like Dogs.\
Predatory captains would discipline insolent crewmen with severe corporal punishment. As one captain recounted, \'93I gave [a seditious Fellow] two or three such Strokes with a stick I had prepared for that purpose \'85 the Blood running about his Ears, he pray\'92d for God\'92s sake that I not kill him.\'94\
Perhaps this would have been bearable had the sailors had recourse to right their captains\'92 wrongs. But often times, the captain\'92s punishment was sanctioned by law. And when his treatment exceeded legal bounds, the sailor faced an uphill battle in court, which often came down to his word against the captain\'92s. Short of mutiny, there wasn\'92t much a sailor could do to protect himself from his captain aboard a merchant ship.\
As one seaman warned a newcomer, \'93There is no justice or injustice on board ship, my lad. There are only two things: duty and mutiny\'97mind that. All that you are ordered to do is duty. All that you refuse to do is mutiny.\'94\
It is said, by pirates themselves, that such abuse was largely responsible for driving sailors to piracy.\
\
MORNING MISTS OFTEN hid the coral sand port on the southern tip of Tortuga, just five miles off the north-western coast of Spanish-owned Hispaniola, now Haiti. Buccaneers, since as early as 1630, would drop anchor at this port, unwind with a bit of rum, and gather a crew for their next trip.\
The men at Tortuga, it turns out, \'93were adamant in wanting to limit the captain\'92s power to abuse and cheat them.\'94\
Most of them having suffered formerly from the ill-treatment of Officers, provided thus carefully against any such Evil now they had the choice in themselves \'85 for the due Execution thereof they constituted other Officers besides the Captain; so very industrious were they to avoid putting too much Power into the hands of one Man.\
Whereas we might have expected a pirate with a ship to command absolute power over his crew, like merchant captains did, it turns out fellow-pirates were adamantly against this. On planning an expedition to pillage Spanish galleons, a crew of 80 would gather to vote on the expedition, on a captain, a quarter-master, and articles of agreement, the last of which had to pass unanimously before a piratical crew was constituted.\
Captains retained absolute authority in times of battle, but shared it with the quarter-master in times of peace, who allocated provisions, distributed loot, adjudicated conflicts and administered discipline.\
[The] Captain of a Pirate Ship, is chiefly chosen to fight the Vessels [the pirates] may meet with. Besides him, they chuse another principle Officer, whom they call Quarter-master, who has the general Inspection of all Affairs, and often controuls the Captain\'92s Orders.\
The crew, thereby, \'93only [permitted their captain] to be Captain, on Condition, that they may be Captain over him.\'94 And their elections turn out not to have been hollow gestures. Crews would vote or depose captains for any number of reasons, like overstepping his authority, cowardice, poor judgement, and in fact, any other behaviour they felt was not in their best interest. One captain\'92s crew, for instance, grew dissatisfied with his behaviour and \'93at last forced him, with twelve others\'94 who supported him \'93into an open Boat \'85 and \'85 they were never heard of afterwards.\'94\
Quarter-masters enforced the articles of agreement, which listed the crew\'92s laws and the punishments for breaking them, thereby limiting the quarter-master\'92s discretion in exercising his power. And in case of doubt regarding the articles, the quarter-master was not left to his judgement, but rather the crew gathered to interpret or apply the articles.\
In Case any Doubt should arise concerning the Construction of these Laws, and it should remain a Dispute whether the Party had infringed them or no, a Jury was appointed to explain them, and bring in a Verdict upon the Case in Doubt.\
These customs, it seems, were pretty good at keeping the peace among \'93nest[s] of rogues\'94. As one pirate observer put it, \'93At sea, [pirates] perform their duties with a great deal of order, better even than on the Ships of the Dutch East India Company; the pirates take a great deal of pride in doing things right.\'94\
At first glance, it seems surprising that pirates would organise themselves so democratically. The practices seem too enlightened to be common amongst thieves- and barbarians-of-the-seas. And yet, they were common.\
 \

\f2\i THESE
\f1\i0  WERE THE Baymen\'92s customs, which they brought over to St. George\'92s 384 years ago. A unanimously voted upon constitution. Elected and easily deposed captains and quarter-masters. Trial by a jury of one\'92s peers. The right to petition the captain and quarter-master without hindrance.\
And yet, in 1638, these customs were, at most, a few decades old. And had only been in force in months-long expeditions at sea, not in permanent settlement. Could they really build an enduring outpost on inhospitable, Spanish land with them?\
It was, quite literally, a life-or-death venture. Sure, they were just after safe harbour and fortune, not some philosophical ideal. And yet, by so doing, they nevertheless began a test of their nascent democratic customs, which had so far held the peace and order among them at sea, but hadn\'92t yet done so, permanently, at land, either among pirates or, as far as we can tell, among any other peoples.\
The grand, unwitting test, it turns out, failed. Slowly, at first, and then all at once.\
The erosion of their by-now ancient rights and customs began in 1783, prompted by Spanish involvement in the American Revolutionary War. The Spanish king, Charles III, seized the moment to regain territory he had lost to the newly-unified British. The Baymen\'92s settlement must have stuck out like a sore thumb. In need of protection, the Magistrates requested a Superintendent, and got one, in 1784, \'93to regulate and superintend\'94 their affairs. An office, since the start of piracy elected and beholden to the electors, was now appointed by a Westminster bureaucrat 5,200 miles away, and beholden to the Crown. As the American colonies gained self-determination, the Baymen lost it, not by force, but rather, by their own choice.\
The loss of independence from British rule only quickened thereon, at each step, again, largely by the Baymen\'92s own choosing. In 1819, a British court was set up in the settlement. By 1830, debates at Public Meeting had to be approved by the Superintendent. By 1832, election of Magistrates was abolished. In 1840, English law was extended to the settlement, and the Baymen\'92s customs abrogated. By 1843, the Public Meeting itself was informed that it had \'93no right, strictly speaking, to legislate, though it may with the consent of the Superintendent make rule for the conduct of the settlement.\'94 In 1853, the Public Meeting renounced its powers, and in 1870 their successor, the Legislative Assembly, abolished suffrage in favour of legislators appointed by the Crown. \
And so, a 232-year tradition of proud, adamant freedom from tyranny and independent self-determination was, in large part, voluntarily given up. It wasn\'92t to be regained until 1954, more than three generations later.\
 \
EL SALVADOR HAS seen a coup attempt every 18 years, on average, for the previous 70 years. Honduras has had one every seven years, as has Guatemala. Fourteen of the 24 coup attempts in these countries in the recent past have been successful.\
There is nothing free about freedom from tyranny. We are born crying and writhing with life, but we aren\'92t born with freedom. Rather, it\'92s been established, relinquished, regained and maintained by our forebears, who\'92ve passed it on to us. And like them, it falls on us to keep and secure our rights and freedoms, for ourselves and future Belizeans. \
By many measures, we don\'92t currently harbour tyrants, and haven\'92t since the grim years between 1786 and 1954. Other than the Public Meeting\'92s and Legislative Assembly\'92s wilful self-destruction, we have had no coups, and recorded no attempts at one.\
And yet, by many measures, we are on the precipice. We\'92ve been deemed a fragile state since 2007, with the likes of El Salvador. Our rule of law has been in free fall since 2006. Our government\'92s effectiveness at, well, governing, and the quality of our regulations have likewise been on a noticeable decline. We are keeping a much looser leash on our government than we should be. And thereby putting ourselves and future Belizeans at significant risk of losing hard-fought rights and freedoms.\'a0\
It seems incredible to us that what has happened in neighbouring places could happen here. But then again, did it not seem incredible to the Baymen to see their long-established customs erode into the same autocracy they had known aboard merchant ships? There is nothing impossible about the idea, nothing special about our soil, skies, or waters which precludes tyranny. There is only our adamant willingness to keep it from happening.\
 \
THEREIN RESTS THE importance of the fourth estate and of communications. We must not bear any overreach by our government. Freedoms wither with infrequent use. To exercise oversight over those in our government, we both need institutions to discover that which actors in bad-faith try to hide, and institutions to learn of these discoveries. That is, we need strong, well-funded journalists, and strong, well-funded systems of communication.\
Governments never have, and never will, keep themselves from hoarding power, whether bit by bit or all at once. Elections and the courts are a necessary, but incomplete, check against this. The last check should be the collective anger and indignation of the people, at every instance of impropriety by elected officials and civil servants, of such wide-spread scale so as to terrify the bad actors. Democracy is, after all, a dance of two. Us, and our governors. And it falls on us to check them, as it always has, and always will.\
\
}